Q1
Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg. 

select title 
from Movie
where director = 'Steven Spielberg'

Q2
Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order. 

select year 
from Movie 
where mID in (select mID from Rating where stars = '4' or stars = '5')
order by year asc

Q3
Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings. 

select title 
from Movie 
where mID not in (select mID from Rating)

Q4
Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date. 

select name
from Reviewer
where rID in (select rID from Rating where ratingDate is null)

Q5
Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars. 


select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from Reviewer R1, Movie M1, Rating R2
where R1.rID = R2.rID and M1.mID = R2.mID
order by name asc, title asc, stars asc

Q6
For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie. 

select name, title
from Reviewer R1, Movie M1, Rating R2, Rating R3
where M1.mID = R2.mID and M1.mID = R3.mID and
R1.rID = R2.rID and R1.rID = R3.rID and
R2.stars > R3.stars and R2.ratingDate > R3.ratingDate

Q7
For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title. 

select title, max(stars)
from Movie, Rating 
where Movie.mID = Rating.mID 
group by Rating.mID
order by title asc

Q8
List movie titles and average ratings, from highest-rated to lowest-rated. If two or more movies have the same average rating, list them in alphabetical order. 

select title, avg(Rating.stars)
from Movie, Rating 
where Movie.mID = Rating.mID 
group by Rating.mID
order by avg(stars) desc, title

Q9
Find the names of all reviewers who have contributed three or more ratings. (As an extra challenge, try writing the query without HAVING or without COUNT.) 

select name
from Reviewer
where Reviewer.rID in (select Rating.rID from Rating
group by Rating.rID having count (Rating.rID) >2)